Who cannot give good counsel? 'tis cheap, it cost them nothing.
He will through life be master of himself and a happy man who from day to day can have said,
'I have lived: tomorrow the Father may fill the sky with black clouds or with cloudless sunshine.'
We must be very careful when we give advice to younger people: sometimes they follow it!
Evil spreads. One attractive bad example may be readily followed by others, eventually ruining a whole community.
This Proverb is apply'd to such Persons who being vicious themselves,
labour to debauch those with whom they converse.
Artistic excellence lies in making something that is subtle or intricate appear simple and streamlined.
One never rises so high as when one does not know where one is going.
Do not take the drastic step of abolishing or discarding something in its entirety when only part of it is unacceptable.
Don't avoid the clichés - they are clichés because they work!
One has to accept the consequences of one's actions, as any result is the logical consequence of preceding actions.
This proverb is used when a person fails to find what they're looking for. Good fortune may not come merely because we expect it.
If you are content with producing what is merely good you will never achieve excellence.
We must accept with gratitude and without complaint what we are given when we do not have the means or opportunity to provide ourselves with something better.
It shows a weak mind not to bear prosperity as well as adversity with moderation.
Starting properly ensures the speedy completion of a process. A beginning is often blocked by one or more obstacles (potential barriers) the removal of which may ensure the smooth course of the process.
Starting properly ensures the speedy completion of a process. A beginning is often blocked by one or more obstacles (potential barriers) the removal of which may ensure the smooth course of the process.
Just Do It
It is better that somebody arrives or something happens later than expected or desired, than not at all.
An innocent demeanor may hide much guilt.
Something you have for certain now is of more value than something better you may get, especially if you risk losing what you have in order to get it.
It is a fact worthy of remark, that when a set of men agree in any particulars, though never so trivial, they flock together, and often establish themselves into a kind of fraternity for contriving and carrying into effect their plans. According to their distinct character they club together, factious with factious, wise with wise, indolent with indolent, active with active et cetera.
When people are friends, they have no need of justice, but when they are just, they need friendship in addition.
Fairest and best adorned is she
Whose clothing is humility.
Why wantonly proclaim one's own disgrace, or expose the faults or weaknesses of one's kindred or people?
Those who are late to act, arrive, or get up tend to miss opportunities already seized by those who came earlier.
I made the statement years ago which is often quoted that 80 percent of life is showing up. People used to always say to me that they wanted to write a play, they wanted to write a movie, they wanted to write a novel, and the couple of people that did it were 80 percent of the way to having something happen.
The bonds between solders of a battle is stronger than family ties
The blood of the covenant is thicker that the water of the womb
Family before Friendship
Stay is a charming word in a friend's vocabulary.
Do not form an opinion about something or somebody based solely on outward appearance.
From one learn all.
Do not pass judgment on somebody until you have been in the same situation, undergone the same experiences, or tried the same thing.
It is better to make some confession, or pay a little deference to others, our neighbors, friends, acquaintances, and especially our superiors, rather than lose our credit or break friendship.
Much ado about nothing.
Those who act boldly or courageously are most likely to succeed.
'We must be grateful for what we get, even if it is less than we desire.
If you make a great number of predictions, the ones that were wrong will soon be forgotten, and the ones that turn out to be true will make you famous.
Do not try to improve on something that already is working well.
We should never use an old tool when the extra labor in consequence costs more than a new one. Thousands wear out their lives and waste their time merely by the use of dull and unsuitable instruments.
The Elder Brother of a Houfe depending on his Eﬁate, is either indulged by Parents, or gives up himfelf to an indolent Humour, that his Soul in his Body, like a Sword in the Scabbard, ruﬁs for want of life, thinking‘ his Eﬁate fuﬂicient to gentilize him, if he have but only the Accompliihment of a Fox-Hunter, or a Country Juftice; the Younger Brother being put to his fhifts, having no Inheritance to depend upon, by plying his Studies hard at Home, and accompliihing himfelf by Travels Abroad, oftentimes, either by Arts or Arms, raifes himfelf to a confpicuous pitch of Honour, and fo becomes much the better Gentleman.
You can pull and pull, but you can't milk a bull.
Those that are above business.
Matters that are of general concern, but are the responsibility of nobody in particular, tend to get neglected because everybody thinks that somebody else should deal with them.
Christ saw much in this world to weep over, and much to pray over: but he saw nothing in it to look upon with contempt.
One is often reluctant to take the risk, or to do the necessary worked involved in doing/getting something desirable.
Inquisitiveness – or a desire to find about something – can lead you into trouble.
In the absence of the person in authority those under his control will often neglect the duties/rules imposed on them.
A weak part or member will affect the success or effectiveness of the whole.
Success doesn’t count unless you earn it fair and square.
A child's character is an indication of the type of adult he or she will become – human nature does not change from youth to maturity.
Children are bound to cause their parents anxiety, and may or may not also bring them joy.
Never count your children twice.
Do not be risk averse. In some cases, charging the bunker without enough ammo is enough to prevent worse things from happening.
Clothes not only enhance appearance but also aim to accredit you to some particular audience.
Working hard for others one may neglect one's own needs or the needs of those closest to him.
How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.
Children generally follow the example of their parents, but imitate their faults more surely than their virtues.
Two people, especially friends or lovers, often regard a third as an unwelcome intruder.
As is our confidence, so is our capacity.
People who know they have done wrong reveal their guilt by the things they say or the way they interpret what other people say.
The only valid question is: Does it work?
If you offer someone a stick of gum, and she says 'No thanks,' you've been rejected.
A wise man should never resolve upon any thing, at least never let the world know his resolution. How many things did the resolve in his declaration concerning Scotland, never to do, and yet did them all?
Advice, n. The smallest current coin.
The most honorable, as well as the safest course, is to rely entirely upon valour.
Do not neglect to give people the praise they deserve, or to acknowledge the good things they do.
One belonging to a group having common interests is not likely to act against or find fault with another member of the same group. Solidarity may prevail over law, justice or truth.
Make sure a matter is really over before relaxing about it. Unforeseen unfavourable developments may intervene and change the expected final result.
One of the most tragic things I know about human nature is that all of us tend to put off living. We are all dreaming of some magical rose garden over the horizon-instead of enjoying the roses that are blooming outside our windows today.
If today was your last day. Could you say goodbye to yesterday?
Not to know what happened before you were born is to be a child forever.
The more of the context of a problem that a scientist can comprehend, the greater are his chances of finding a truly adequate solution.
You are more likely to win if you take the initiative and make an attack rather than preparing to defend yourself.
Hesitation or procrastination may lead to trouble or disaster.
Evil will never triumph if all temptations are rejected.
Bad conduct soils the finest ornament more than filth.
Very seldom does any good thing arise but there comes an ugly phantom of a caricature of it.
Drastic action is called for – and justified – when you find yourself in a particularly difficult situation.
Better put an end to a troublesome business than to be always vex'd with it.
Judges ought to be more learned than witty, more reverend than plausible, and more advised than confident. Above all things, integrity is their portion and proper virtue.
Well done
Threatening does not always lead to action: Harsh words may disguise a different feeling, intention or ability.
This Proverb is a Taunt upon Braggadoccio's, who talk big, boast, and rattle:
Once somebody's reputation has been damaged – for example, by rumor or slander – it will never recover.
One who intends some unjust action will try to justify it in advance.
The extreme folly of going into bad company, has been the theme of public teachers in all ages and countries. Although we may not go to the excesses of others, yet still, as a general truth we become assimilated in spirit with those with whom we associate ourselves, imperceptible it may be to our own minds, but no less true.
When baffled in one direct a man of energy will not despair, but will find another way to his object.
If 'humility' means nothing more than the capacity to learn from criticism, then it has an undoubted value; but if “humility” means a willingness to submit to authority—to abandon or to modify what one is doing merely because it does not accord with the teachings of the Bible or the thoughts of Chairman Mao—then it is death to the spirit: the proper name for it, indeed, is 'servility'.
If you are unsure what to do, it is best to do nothing at all.
If you are unsure what to do, it is best to do nothing at all.
A drop hollows out the stone by falling not twice, but many times; so too is a person made wise by reading not two, but many books.
It is usually safe to identify somebody as a particular type of person when his or her appearance, behavior, and words all point to the same conclusion.
A lifestyle that involves neither staying up late nor sleeping late is good for body and mind and leads to financial success.
People who eavesdrop on the conversations of others risk hearing unfavorable comments about themselves; used as a warning or reprimand.
 It is said, that the thing you possess is worth more than two you may have in the future. The one is sure and the other is not.
Spread your risks or investments so that if one enterprise fails you will not lose everything.
Sacrifices have to be made in order to achieve a goal; often used to justify an act that causes loss, harm, or distress to others.
Thou canst not joke an Enemy into a Friend;
Those who dislike or oppose the same person or thing are bound to be friends or allies.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Seek first the virtues of the mind; and other things either will come, or will not be wanted.
If you are forced to choose between two options, both of which are undesirable, all you can do is choose the one that is less undesirable than the other.
Let me have no lying; it becomes none but tradesmen.
Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows. Let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances.
It is important to do things in the proper order, and not omit a basic first step.
Do not be discouraged by failure, and never give up – if you keep trying you will ultimately enjoy success.
Somebody who has had an unpleasant experience thereafter shrinks from the cause of that experience.
This Proverb intimates, That it is natural for all living Creatures, whether rational or irrational,
to consult their own Security, and Self-Preservation; and whether they act by Instinct or Reason, it still
tends to some care of avoiding those things that have already done them an Injury.
One should not make a bad situation even worse by an improper remark.
The best way to deal with an opponent is to fight back with similar weapons or tactics.
There is no effect without some cause. also It is supposed that if there is a rumour, there must be some truth behind it.
Look round the habitable world: how few Know their own good, or knowing it, pursue.
Many are accustomed to envy others for their rare acquisitions, while they themselves have equal opportunity of obtaining the same. They ought to be satisfied that as good advantages are equally accessible to them as others, and remember the significant saying, that 'Man is the architect of his own fortune.'
Knowledge is proud that he has learn'd so much;
Wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
Wisdom precludes boldness.
I trust no rich man who is officiously kind to a poor man.
It is foolish to persist in the same opinion or course of action regardless of new information or different circumstances.
This is spoken in derision to those which have great expectation from some fond design or undertaking which is not likely to succeed.
Pure friendship is something which men of an inferior intellect can never taste.
Advice is what we ask for when we already know the answer but wish we didn't...
Flatterers are the worst kind of enemies.
Mens friends commonly bear a proportion to their circumstances iu the world. And therefore if we be such friends to as to make our circumstances easy and plentiful we will not want friends.
Know this, that he that is a friend to himself, is a friend to all men.
That is, who is serviceable to me – a vile sentiment if understood to absolutely; but the proverb i rather to be interpreted as offering a test by which genuine friendship may be distinguished from its counterfeit.
Mens friends commonly bear a proportion to their circumstances iu the world. And therefore if we be such friends to as to make our circumstances easy and plentiful we will not want friends.
Treacherous or disloyal friends are worse than enemies
Most of our misfortunes are more supportable than the comments of our friends upon them.
Things that you must not have or do are always the most desirable.
'A person or machine provided with inferior source material, faulty instructions, or erroneous information can provide only poor quality-work or rubbish.
That is, both at a distance seem something, but, when narrowly inspected, are nothing.
Give way slightly and he'll press home his advantage. Yielding a little to bad influence (or to a greedy perrson/group), one will be taken entirely or he/it will be encouraged to take much more.
Immediate aid is of more value. - A process of derogation can best be stopped in its initial stages, or a process of development can best be helped in the beginning.
All political parties die at last of swallowing their own lies.
You can have the other words— chance, luck, coincidence,serendipity. I'll take grace.
Sometimes, you need a door slammed in your face before you can hear opportunity knock.
An attractive appearance may be deceptive. It may cover or hide a much less favourable content.
Take care not to destroy something valuable, such as a source of steady income, through greed, impatience, or a desire for instant gain.
This proverb imitates that an inbred Philauty runs through the whole Race of Flefh and Blood. It blinds the Underftanding, perverts the Judgment, depraves the Reafon of the Diftinguishers of Truth and Falfity.
Your brain gets smart but your head gets dumb.
What is appropriate for one person is equally appropriate for their counterpart or their critic.
There is no one doctrine of administration for business and another for affairs of state; administrative doctrine is universal. Principles and general rules which hold good for business hold good for the state too, and the reverse applies.
Do not trust gifts or favors if they come from an enemy.
Betwixt the devil and the deep sea.
People should be valued for their good deeds, not their good looks, also occasionally used of things, or as a warning not to be misled by an attractive appearance.
Concentrate on one thing at a time or you will achieve nothing. - Trying to do two or more things at a time, when even one on its own needs full effort, means that none of them will be accomplished properly.
Progress with discretion. Acting hastily one is likely to forget/overlook something important, leading to grave errors or failure.
By acting too hastily or doings too hurriedly you risk causing damage or making mistakes that subsequently have to be put right.
The advice of the elders to young men is very apt to be as unreal as a list of the hundred best books.
Trust your instincts.
People overrun and oppress those who are least able to resist.
All contributions, however small, are of use.
The opportunity is often lost by deliberating.
Lack of foresight, unwillingness to act when action would be simple and effective, lack of clear thinking, confusion of counsel until the emergency comes, until self-preservation strikes its jarring gong—these are the features which constitute the endless repetition of history.
When you have landed yourself in trouble, such as through a foolish remark or action, do not say or do anything to make it worse.
He deserves praise who does not what he may, but what he ought.
Usually suggesting that a person understands very well what another person is getting at as any kind of hint or gesture will suffice to communicate it.
It is often wise not to quit an undertaking already begun.
How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.
There is no point in indulging in wishful thinking.
I will hear it from an authoritative or dependable source.
A present should not be criticized. It is an expression of respect and appreciation and any criticism would offend the donor. (The teeth of a horse reveal its age, i.e its real value.)
You can give somebody the opportunity to do something, but you cannot force him or her to do it.
Uninformed enthusiasm will only lead to disaster.
I am firmly convinced, as I have already said, that to effect any great social improvement, it is sympathy rather than self-interest, the sense of duty rather than the desire for self-advancement, that must be appealed to. Envy is akin to admiration, and it is the admiration that the rich and powerful excite which secures the perpetuation of aristocracies.
 'This world, where much is to be done and little to be known.
Take advantage of an opportunity when it presents itself, before it passes away. A good opportunity is usually a rare coincidence of various factors, unlikely to be repeated.
The ideas of economists and political philosophers, both when they are right and when they are wrong, are more powerful than is commonly understood. Practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influence, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist. 
Be aware of yor own strenths and weaknesses.
An education isn't how much you have committed to memory, or even how much you know. It's being able to differentiate between what you do know and what you don't.
If you cannot cope with the pace or stress, as in a competitive industry or in a position of high office, then you should leave or resign.
It is necessary to be bold and courageous to win the heart of a woman – or to achieve any other cherished objective.
Do not celebrate prematurely while something is not yet achieved finally. - Unforeseen developments often lead to a less favourable final result.
Good writers indulge their audience; great writers know better.
The past is never dead. It's not even past.
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from a completely ad-hoc plot device.
There is no fate that plans men's lives. Whatever comes to us, good or bad, is usually the result of our own action or lack of action.
The same unpleasant or unexpected phenomenon will not recur in the same place or circumstances, or happen to the same person again; a superstition that often leads to a false sense of security.
The best remedy for a disease or affliction is something that is capable of causing the same condition.
The problem with people who have no vices is that generally you can be pretty sure they're going to have some pretty annoying virtues.
Freedom is the very essence of life, the creator of every new outlook.
Impetuous schemes and boldness is at first sight alluring, but difficult to handle, and in its result disastrous. 
I am persuaded that those who quite sincerely attribute their sorrows to their views about the universe are putting the cart before the horse: the truth is they are unhappy for some reasons of which they are not aware, and this unhappiness leads them to dwell upon the less agreeable characteristics of the world in which they live.
You should learn from your mistakes rather than repeating them.
Many things complicated are restored by reason.
A recipe for success in many walks of life is to speak only when necessary and to remain alert, observant, and watchful at all times.
More is expected of those who have received more - that is, those who had good fortune, are naturally gifted, or have been shown special favour.
There is of money to be made whenever there is muck or dirt of some kind.
Everything has to be paid for, directly or indirectly, in money or in kind.
Nothing is achieved without effort.
Those who leave us are soon forgotten. - Seeing somebody reinforces the memory while a long abscence and the appearance of new impressions may result in a gradual fading of it.
Do not anticipate the end of something; specifically, do not give up hope until you have actually lost or failed.
You are in a position to take the opportunities that life has to offer.
The quality of goods and services is reflected in their price − cheap things are usually inferior and expensive things are usually superior.
Seize the bargain.
Present afflictions may tend to our future good.
It is impossible to do something that everybody will approve of.
Decide what you're going to do this week, and not this year. Make decisions right before you do something, not far in advance.
'Tis a hard task not to surrender morality for riches.
Those who cannot or will not help to solve a problem or improve a situation are a positive hindrance.
In prosperity let us most carefully avoid pride, disdain, and arrogance.
Proverbs depend for their truth entirely on the occasion they are applied to. Almost every wise saying has an opposite one, no less wise, to balance it.
If somebody asks you something politely, you should respond in the same manner.
It's easier to ask forgiveness than it is to get permission.
In private animosities and verbal contentions, where angry passions are apt to rise, and irritating, if not profane expressions are often made use of, as we sometimes see to be the case, not only among neighbors, but in families, between husbands and wives, or parents and children, or the children themselves and other members of the household, - the least said, the better in general. By multiplying words, cases often grow worse instead of better.
Well done
Nobody can fully understand another person's hardship or suffering.
Those who fail to keep alert will lose out.
The consequences are directly related to one's actions.
It seems that every life form on this planet strives toward its maximum potential...except human beings. A tree does not row to half its potential size and then say, 'l guess that will do.”
He that sows bountifully, also reaps bountifully. Raise high your standard of excellence, if you would make worthy attainments.
Before Haig nobody had thought of saying 'at this juncture of maturization' to mean 'now.' He told the American people that terrorism could be fought with 'meaningful sanctionary teeth' and that intermediate nuclear missiles were 'at the vortex of cruciality.'
Phraseology and style are often more important than the actual content of speech or writing.
No one needs to be told that a vast deal of labor is expended unnecessarily. This is occasioned, to a great extent, by the neglect of seasonable repairs.
A man in extreme difficulty will try anything which seems to offer even the slightest help to extricate himself.
Always take the easiest possible approach to doing something.
An object that seems useless now may be just what you need at some future time, so do not discard it.
It turns out very often that something 'never seen/experienced before' especially in human relationships - has, in fact, in some way or another, happened before. - Human nature and the basic human aspirations did not change.
Just because there is evidence does not mean there is truth
Those who engage in aggression or violence will meet their death in a similar way.
Wickedness is always easier than virtue; for it takes the short cut to everything.
People who idle their lives away will not make a lasting impression on history or be remembered for their great achievements.
Time sometimes seems to pass with surprising rapidity.
Nobody can afford to waste time that could be spent earning money.
The true nature of something is likely to emerge over a period of time, and that conversely it is only after time has passed that something can be regarded as settled.
It may be more difficult or sometimes even impossible to do something later, which can be easily done now.
A common mistake that people make when trying to design something completely foolproof is to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools.
Children observe daily and — in their behaviour — often follow the example of their parents.
Not telling the whole truth or saying something that is only partially true, is tantamount to lying.
Sustained by truth, man becomes a most sublime spectacle. Here is the foundation of all true eloquence and dignity - the conscience untrammeled gives boldness and majesty, and the whole soul rises to the glorious height of its own nobility.
There's nothing you can hide from.
Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb? Excuse not silence so, for truth lies in there.
People are often surprised to discover what they are capable of when they make an effort.
Neither part to an argument or dispute can be held individually responsible for causing it.
A problem is more quickly solved if two people put their minds to it.
I have not learned how to solve difficult business problems, but to avoid them. To the extent I have been successful, it is because I concentrated on identifying one-foot hurdles because I acquired any ability to clear seven-footers.
Stupid, 'empty headed' people - lacking due consideration - are often verbose.
The whole community plays a part in the upbringing of the children that live there.
Don't boast of something if you are unwilling or unable to back it up by your actions.
It is necessary to learn the basics before progressing to more advanced things.
Those in authority cannot be relied on to do their job properly.
If we don't waste what we've got now, we won't want or need more of it in the future.
Reckless extravagance leads to dire need.
Slow but steady work can achieve much.
Never esteem anything as of advantage to you that will make you break your word or lose your self-respect.
Those who complain the most loudly or persistently, or who make the most fuss, get what they want. 
Working hard for others one may neglect one's own needs or the needs of those closest to him.
A married man's financial situation, his success or failure in business, and the like often depend on the behavior and disposition of his wife.
Take advantage of an opportunity when it presents itself, even if you do not want or need it at the time, because it may no longer be available when you do.
Trouble once started can spark off a chain reaction, often resulting in a great trouble out of control.
Show me a good loser and I will show you a loser.
With how much ease believe we what we wish!
A woman who is rejected by the man she loves has an immense capacity for ferocious or malicious revenge.
Mere words have no value unless they are followed by positive action.
Mere words have no value unless they are followed by positive action.
A joke's a very serious thing.
Actions may be, and indeed sometimes are deceptive in a measure though not as much so as words; and accordingly are received in general as more full and satisfactory proofs of the real disposition and character of persons than verbal expressions.
We think basically you watch television to turn your brain off, and you work on your computer when you want to turn your brain on.
The meanest or weakest person is not to be provoked or despised. No creature so small, weak, or contemptible, but if it be injured and abused will endeavour to revenge itself.
Cheerful people never lack company, but miserable people are shunned by others.
We should not plan and then try to make circumstances fit those plans. Instead we should make plans fit the circumstances.
If there is the remotest possibility of failure or disaster, you can be sure that it will happen.
Young people should take the opportunity to do all the things they will be unable to do when they're older.
Young people should take the opportunity to do all the things they will be unable to do when they're older.
The greatest part of mankind employ their first years to make their last miserable.A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. 
A closed mouth gathers no foot.
A committee is a cul-de-sac down which ideas are 
A coward dies a thousand deaths, a brave man dies but once.
A corporation is an ingenius device for obtaining 
A cynic is a man who knows the price of everything 
A day without orange juice is like a day without 
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A friend in need is a friend indeed (or a ‘pest indeed’).
A friend to all is a friend to none.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
A job worth doing, is worth doing well.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. (LAO-TZU)
A leader is a dealer in hope. (NAPOLEON)
A liberal is a man who is willing to spend someone else’s money.
A lie, told often enough, becomes the truth.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine. (BIBLE)
A man cannot serve two masters. (BIBLE)
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man that don’t lie ain’t got nuthin’ to say.
A man who represents himself in court has a fool for a client.
A man’s got to know his limitations. 
A man’s gotta do what a man’s gotta do.
A man’s home is his castle.
A minute on the lips, a lifetime in the heart.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A penny for your thoughts.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A picture’s worth a thousand words.
A prophet is never accepted in his own country. (BIBLE)
A radical is a man with both feet firmly planted in the air.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rose, by any other name, would smell as sweet.
A rose, is a rose, is a rose.
A soft word turneth away wroth. (BIBLE)
A solid house for shifting sands, a solid law for shifty lawyers. (GARTH)
A spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down. (HOLLYWD)
A stitch in time, saves nine.
A stranger’s just a friend you’ve never met.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
A watched pot never boils.
A wise head makes a closed mouth.
A woman is like a teabag. Only in hot water do you 
A woman’s place is in the home.
A woman’s work is never done.
A word to the wise is sufficient.
A workman is worthy of his hire.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Actions speak louder than words.
Age before beauty.
Age is strictly a case of mind over matter....
All roads lead to 
All sins are attempts to fill voids. (WEIL)
All that glitters is not gold.
All the world’s a stage.
All things come to he who waits.
All things in moderation.
All things work together for good. (BIBLE)
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
All’s fair in love and war.
All’s well that ends well (or ‘ends in a well’).
Always get a second opinion.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An army marches on it’s stomach.
An elephant never forgets.
An inch is as good as a mile.
An injury is sooner forgotten than an insult.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Another day, another dollar.
Any man who hates children and dogs can’t be all bad. (ROSTEN/FIELDS)
Any port in a storm.
Ape must not kill ape. (
April showers bring May flowers.
‘Architecture’ is the art of how to waste space.
Art and Science are two sides of the same coin. (GARTH)
As above, so below.
As sure as death and taxes.
As the teeth go, so goes the body. (HOLLYWD)
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. (BIBLE)
Ask, and ye shall receive. (BIBLE)
Ask me no questions, I’ll tell you no lies.
Ask not, what your country can do for you,... ask what 
Back to the old drawing board.
Be careful what you wish for; you might get it.
Be careful who you step on while climbing the 
Be sure your sins will find you out. (BIBLE)
Be thankful for what you’ve got.
Be there,…or be square.
Beauty and brains don’t mix.
Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. (or 'Beer Holder')
Beauty is only skin deep.
Bee to the blossom, moth to the flame, each to his 
Being there is half the fun.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
Better late than never.
Better Red than dead. (POLIT.)
Better safe than sorry.
Better the devil you know than the devil you don’t know.
Better to be healthy than wealthy.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts. (HIST.)
Big brother is watching. (LITER.)
Birds of a feather flock together.
Black is beautiful.
Blondes have more fun. (T.V.-ADVER.)
Blood’s thicker than water.
Boys will be boys.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Broad is the path, but narrow is the way. (BIBLE)
Build a better mousetrap and the world will beat  a path to your doorstep.
Burn me once, shame on you; burn me twice, shame on me.
Business is business.
By the needles which prick my thumbs, something wicked this way comes.
Candy is dandy, but liquor is quicker.
Cats always land on their feet.
Chance favors the prepared mind. (HOLLYWD)
Change is good for the soul.
Character is what a man is in the dark. (MOODY)
Charity begins at home.
Cheaters never prosper.
Children should be seen and not heard.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Cleanliness is next to Godliness.
Close,…but no cigar.
Clothes make the man. 
Cold hands- warm heart.
Comedy is not pretty. (MARTIN )
Common sense is not so common. (VOLTAIRE)
Confession is good for the soul.
Count your blessings.
Cross that bridge when you come to it.
Curiousity killed the cat (but satisfaction brought him back).
Damn the torpedoes! Full speed ahead!
Dead men tell no tales.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Diamonds are a girl’s best friend.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Divide and conquer.
Do not judge another until you’ ve walked for two moons in his moccasins.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Do unto others, but do it first.
Don’t ask of others what you yourself can do.
Don’t beat a dead horse.
Don’t believe everything you hear. 
Don’t bet the rent on it. 
Don’t bite off more than you can chew.
Don’t bite the hand that feeds you.
Don’t borrow trouble.
Don’t cast caution to the winds.
Don’t change horses in midstream. 
Don’t confuse me with the facts. 
Don’t count your chickens before they’re hatched.
Don’t cry over spilt milk. 
Don’t cut off your nose to spite your face.
Don’t do the crime if you can’t do the time.
Don’t eat yellow snow. (N.A.F.T.)
Don’t feed the bears.
Don’t forget your raincoat (i.e. condom)
Don’t get caught with your pants down.
Don’t give up the ship.
Don’t go against the grain.
Don’t go off half cocked.
Don’t go off the deep end.
Don’t grab the tiger by the tail.
Don’t kick a man when he’s down.
Don’t kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
Don’t kill the messenger.
Don’t knock it ‘til you’ve tried it.
Don’t let the cat out of the bag.
Don’t live in a fool’s paradise.
Don’t look a gift horse in the mouth.
Don’t look back. Somethin’ might be gainin’ on ya. (PAIGE)
Don’t make a federal case out of it.
Don’t make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don’t make promises you can’t keep.
Don’t nit pick.
Don’t pick green fruit.
Don’t pour salt on the wound.
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.
Don’t put the cart before the horse.
Don’t quit your day job.
Don’t ride the fence. 
Don’t rob Peter to pay Paul.
Don’t rub people the wrong way.
Don’t send a boy to do a man’s job.
Don’t shoot ‘til you see the whites of their eyes. (HIST.)
Don’t spit into the wind.
Don’t split hairs.
Don’t start something you can’t finish.
Don’t sweat the small stuff.
Don’t take any wooden nickels.
Don’t take it lying down.
Don’t throw out the baby with the bathwater.
Don’t throw stones in the well you drink from.
Don’t toot your own horn.
Don’t tread on me. (HIST.)
Don’t trust anyone over thirty. (POLIT)
Don’t worry about bitin’ off more than you can chew. Your 
Don’t yell fire in a crowded theatre.
Dreams die hard.
Drowning men catch at straws.
Dumb breeds dumb.
Dying is easy; comedy,…that’s hard. (GWYNN)
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, 
Earth has no sorrow that heaven cannot heal. (
Easy come, easy go.
Easy does it.
 and 
Et tu Brutus? (HIST.)
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every dog has his day.
Every little bit helps.
Every man has his price.
Every time a bell rings, an angel gets his wings. 
Everybody likes a kidder, but nobody lends him money. (MILLER)
Everybody talks about the weather, but no one does anything about it.
Everybody wants ta get into da act! (DURANTE)
Everybody’s got a racket.
Everyone loves a clown.
Everything is funny as long as it’s happening to somebody else. (
Evil takes many forms.
Excuses are like bellybuttons (or some other body part), 
Exemptions are the rule.
Expect a miracle everyday.
Expect the unexpected.
Experience is the best teacher.
Failure is no crime, too low an aim is.
Faint heart never won fair maiden.
Fair is fair.
Fake it ‘til you make it.
Fame is fleeting.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Fashions may come and fashions may go, but good manners 
Fast cars, faster women.
Fate is the hunter.
Father knows best. (T.V.)
Fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. (BIBLE)
Feed a cold-starve a fever. (Not true, by the way)
F.I.G.M.O.  ( Author’s note: It’s an armed services thing ).
Finders keepers, losers weepers.
First come, first served.
First impressions are the strongest.
First things first.
Fish and guests. Both stink in three days.(LYLY)
Follow the drinking gourd. (HIST.)
Follow the money.
Follow your dreams.
Follow your heart.
Follow the yellow brick road. (HOLLYWD)
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread. (BIBLE)
Force begets force.
Force without judgement falls of it’s own weight. (HORACE)
Forgive your enemies - but don’t forget their names.
Form follows function.
Fortune favors the brave.
Frailty, thy name is woman.(SHAKESPEAR)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk (T.V.-ADVER.-SLOGAN)
From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs.(MARX)
Garbage in – garbage out.
Gas, grass or ass – nobody rides for free. (BUMPER) (N.A.F.T.)
Get a life.
Get real.
Get the lead out.
Get thee behind me Satan. (BIBLE)
Get with the program.
Get your kicks on route 66. (T.V.)
Getting there is half the fun.
Gimme that old-time religion.
Girlfriends bring fun. Wives bring happiness.
Give a little, get a little.
Give a man a fish, and you feed him for a day. Teach a 
Give ‘em an inch, and they’ll take a mile.
Give the devil his due.
Go ahead,…make my day. (H. CALLAHAN) (HOLLYWD)
Go west young man. (
Go where the money is.
God created mankind. Smith and Wesson made them equal. (BUMPER)
God, guts and guns. (BUMPER.)
God heals, and the doctor takes the fee.(
God is on the side of those with the heaviest artillery.
God watches over BABIES and DRUNKS. 
Gone, but not forgotten.
Good enough for government work.
Good fences make good neighbors.
Good judgement comes from experience, and a lot of that 
Good things come in small packages.
Good things, when short, are twice as good. (GRACIAN)
Gravity sucks. 
Happiness walks on busy feet.
Hard work never hurt nobody.
Haste makes waste.
Have a nice day. (SOC-PSYCH)
He is armed without who is innocent within. (POPE)
He who calls the tune, pays the piper.
He who dies with the most toys wins. (BUMPER)
He who fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who hesitates is probably right.
He who is to be a good ruler, must first have been ruled. (ARISTOTLE)
He who laughs last, laughs best.
He who lives by the sword, dies by the sword.
He who smelt it, dealt it. (N.A.F.T.)
Hearts are not judged by how much we love, but by 
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
He’s not (or “She’s not”) the only fish in the sea.
Hindsight is 20/20.
History repeats itself.
Hit ‘em low, and hit ‘em hard.
Home is where the heart is.
Home sweet home.
Honesty is the best policy.
Hope is the parent of faith.
Hope springs eternal.
How long a minute is depends on which side of the 
How the mighty have fallen.
I am Spartacus! (HOLLYWD)
I calls ‘em as I see’s ‘em.
I came, I saw, I conquered.(JULIUS CAESAR)
I have not yet begun to fight. (J.P. JONES)
I like Ike. (POLIT.)
I owe, I owe, so off to work I go. (BUMPER)
I shall return. (MacArthur)
I slept, and dreamed that life was Beauty. I awoke, 
I would rather be RIGHT than president. (CLAY)
Idle hands are the devil’s tools.
Idle minds are the devil’s workshop.
If at first you don’t succeed, …the hell with it. (BUMPER)
If at first you don’t succeed,…try, try again.
If attacked by a bear – play dead.
If everything is coming your way, you’re in the wrong lane.
If God be for us, who can be against us?
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.
If it bleeds, it leads.
If it feels good, do it. (N.A.F.T.)
If it isn’t taxed, it’s regulated. If it isn’t regulated, it’s about to be.
If it jams, force it. If it breaks, it needed replacing anyway. 
If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
If it walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck,…it’s a duck.
If it’s too loud, you’re too old. 
If looks could kill…
If man were meant to fly, he’d have wings.
If money goes before, all ways lie open.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If this van’s a-rockin’, don’t come a-knockin’.(BUMPER)(N.A.F.T.)
If thou wouldst keep money, save money. If thou 
If wishes were fishes, beggars would ride.
If you can pinch an inch, you’re fat.
If you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em.
If you can’t dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with bulls - - -.
If you can’t find ‘em, grind ‘em. (Refers to shifting gears)
If you can’t take the heat, stay out of the kitchen.
If you can’t win for losing, you might as well quit.
If YOU don’t say it, THEY can’t repeat it.
If you don’t work, you don’t eat.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
If you get to thinkin’ you’re a person of some influence, try 
If you gotta ask, you can’t afford it.
If you lie down with dogs, you wake up with fleas.
If you play with a hot piano, you’ll get your fingers burned. (T.V.)
If you talk to God, you’re praying. If God talks to you, it’s schizophrenia.(TILLICH)
If you’re gonna steal something, might as well be something big. 
If you’re gonna steal, steal from the best.
If you’re riding ahead of the herd, take a look back now and then 
If youth knew; if age could.
Ignorance is bliss.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse.
Ignore alien transmissions.
I’ll be back. (HOLLYWD)
I’m okay - you’re okay. (SOC.-PSYCH.)
I’m rubber, you’re glue. Whatever you say bounces off me and sticks to you.
Image is everything.
Imagination is more important than science. (EINSTEIN)
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Impropriety is the soul of wit.(MAUGHAM)
In Christianity, one man sacrifices himself for all. 
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In order to get a loan, you must first prove you don’t need it.
Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. (M.L. KING)
Into each life, a little rain must fall.
Invention breeds invention. (EMERSON)
Iron bars do not a prison make.
It ain’t over ‘til it’s over.
It ain’t over ‘til the fat lady sings.
It don’t mean a thing if it ain’t got that swing.
It don’t take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
It is better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
It is better to light one candle than to curse the darkness.
It is better to rule in hell, than to serve in heaven. (LITER.)
It is easier to fight for one’s principles than to live up to them. (ADLER)
It is what it is.
It isn’t the quarry that makes the hunt, nor is the goal the game.
It pays to advertise.
It shouldn’t happen to a dog.
It takes a whole village to raise a child.
It takes money to make money.
It takes one to know one.
It takes two to tango (or ‘tangle’).
It’ll all come out in the wash.
It’s a dog-eat-dog world.
It’s a man’s world.
It’s a nice place to visit, but I wouldn’t want to live there.
It’s always darkest just before the dawn.
It’s better to ask dumb questions, than to make dumb mistakes.
It’s better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all.(TENNYSON)
It’s good to be the king.(
It’s more blessed to give than to receive.
It’s not nice to fool Mother Nature.
It’s not polite to stare.
It’s not the age,…it’s the mileage. (JONES) (HOLLYWD)
It’s not the heat, it’s the humidity.
It’s not the men in my life that matters; it’s the life in my men. (WEST)
It’s not the size of the man that counts in a fight, it’s the 
It’s not WHAT you know, it’s WHO you know.
It’s not whether you win or lose, but how you play the game.
It’s the top of the building that sways the furthest 
It’s what you DON’T see that matters.
Jack-of-all-trades,…master of none.
Jesus-others-you (spells J.O.Y.).
Jesus saves.
Joy & temperance and repose, slams the door 
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Jump my chest and I’ll do the rest. (Portland, OR. 1967)
Just because you can, doesn’t mean you should.
Just because you’re not paranoid doesn’t mean 
Justice is blind.
Justice shines by it’s own light. (
Keep a stiff upper lip.
Keep-it-simple-stupid (or K.I.S.S.).
Keep the faith.
Keep on keepin’ on.
Keep on thinking free. (MOODY BLUES )
Keep on truckin’. (BUMPER)
Keep the homefires burning.
Keep your eye on the bottom line.
Keep your eyes on the prize.
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer.
Keep your hands to yourself.
Keep your powder dry.
Kill or be killed.
Kill them with kindness.
Kindness begets kindness.
Klaatu Nikto Barada. (HOLLYWD)
Knock and the door shall be opened unto you. (BIBLE)
Knowledge is power.
Knowledge puffeth up. (BIBLE)
Know thyself.
Last hired, first fired.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you. Cry, and you cry alone.
Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let 
Lead, follow or get out of the way. (MOTTO)
Leaflets three, leave it be.
Less is more. 
Let a smile be your umbrella.
Let by-gones be by-gones.
Let 
Let God.
Let he who is without sin cast the first stone. (BIBLE)
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the buyer beware.
Let the chips fall where they may.
Let the facts speak for themselves.
Let tomorrow take care of itself.
Let your conscience be your guide.
Let’s not and say we did.
Lettin’ the cat outta the bag is a whole lot easier than puttin’ it back in.
‘
Life can only be understood backwards, 
Life goes on.
Life is like a box of chocolates; you never know just 
Life is a bed of roses.
Life’s just a bowl of cherries.
Lightning never strikes twice.
Like sands through the hourglass, so are the days of our lives. (T.V.)
Live and learn.
Live and let live.
Live fast, die young, and leave a good looking corpse. (N.A.F.T.)
Live for today.
Live free or die. (POLIT.)
Live long and prosper. (T.V.)
Live simply, so that others may simply live.
Live to ride-ride to live.
Living well is the best revenge.
Little pitchers have big ears.
Location, location, location.
LOCKS keep honest people honest.
Look before you leap.
Look sharp, feel sharp.
Loose lips sink ships.
Love conquers all.
Love hurts.
Love is a many splendored thing
Love is blind.
Love is fleeting-herpes is forever.
Love is the drug.
Love makes the world go round.
Love means you never have to say you’re sorry.
Love the life you live-live the life you love.
Love the one you’re with.
Luck be a lady tonight. (SINATRA)
Lucky tie-lucky guy.
Mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun.
Make ‘em laugh.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make love not war.
Man does not live by bread alone.
Man may work from sun to sun, but a women’s work i
Man’s best friend is his dog.
Many are called, few are chosen. (BIBLE)
Many hands make light work.
March goes in like a lion, but out like a lamb.
Married in black, can’t go back.
Married in hast, repent in leisure.
May the best man win.
Men don’t make passes at girls who wear glasses.
Mess with the best, die like the rest.
Might makes right.
Milk it for all it’s worth.
Mind your P’s and Q’s.
Misery loves company.
Money begets money.
Money can’t buy love (or ‘happiness’).
Money doesn’t grow on trees.
Money is a good servant, but a bad master.
Money is like muck, not good unless it is spread.
Money talks (Bulls--- walks). (N.A.F.T.)
Monkey see-monkey do.
More power. (ALLEN)
Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast (or ‘beast’).
My country, right or wrong.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Neatness counts.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity never made a good bargain. (
Neither a borrower nor a lender be. (LITER.)
Neither cast your pearls before swine….(BIBLE)
Neither rain, nor snow, nor sleet, nor dark of night will stay 
Never ask a barber if you need a haircut.
Never ASSUME, because that makes an ASS out 
Never be first, never be last, never volunteer.
Never drop your gun to hug a grizzly.
Never follow good whiskey with water, unless you’re 
Never follow kids and animals. (HOLLYWD/VAUDEVILLE)
Never invest in anything that eats.
Never let the facts get in the way of a carefully 
Never look directly into the sun.
Never miss a good chance to shut up.
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
Never say ‘die’.
Never say never.
Never smack a man who’s chewin’ tobacco.
Never talk important matters where you cannot see who listens.
Nice guys finish last.
Nine-tenths of wisdom is being wise in time. (T.ROOSEVELT)
Nip it in the bud. (
Nixon now. (POLIT.)
No accounting for taste.
No act of kindness, no matter how small, is ever wasted. (AESOP)
No fear.
No glove, no love.(refers to ‘condoms’)
No guts, no glory.
No hero is immortal until he dies.(AUDEN)
No honor among thieves.
No man is an island.
No matter what goes wrong, there is always someone 
No news is good news.
No pain, no gain. (HOLLYWD)
No problem is so bad it can’t fester awhile longer. (DAVIES)
No rest for the wicked.
No shirt, no shoes, no service. (MOTTO)
No tears in the writer, no tears in the reader.(R.FROST)
No time like the present.
Nobody likes a know-it-all.
Nobody loves a winner who wins all the time.
Not-in-my-back-yard ( N.I.M.B.Y.)
Not in my Marine Corps.
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
Nothing happens until first…a dream!
Nothing improves creativity like a lack of supervision.
Nothing is certain except death and taxes.
Nothing is impossible for God.
Nothing lasts forever.
Nothing says lovin’ like something from the oven 
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Numbers don’t lie.
Oh what a tangled web we weave, when first we practice t
Old and smart beats young and fast everytime.
On a galloping horse, who can tell?
Once bitten, twice shy.
Once black, never back. (N.A.F.T.)
Once on the lips, forever on the hips.
One good turn deserves another.
One hand washes the other.
One man’s myth is another man’s gospel.
One man’s wage rise is another man’s price increase. (
One, on God’s side, is a majority.(PHILLIPS)
One person dies and it’s a tragedy. A million people die 
One person’s trash is another person’s treasure.
One thing leads to another.
Only time will tell.
Only Nixon could go to 
Only the good die young.
Only the lead dog gets a change of scenery.
Opportunities are seldom labeled.
 always knocks at the least opportune moment.
 knocks but once.
 usually comes disguised as hard work.
Opposites attract.
Our true size is the size of our God. (HOLLYWD)
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of the frying pan, into the fire.
Out of the mouths of babes…
Out with the old, in with the new.
Parting is such sweet sorrow (Shakespeare).
People only want the truth when the truth is convenient.
People who live in glass houses, shouldn’t throw stones.
Perfection, like principles, do not belong in business.
Physician, heal thyself.
Pick your battles carefully.
Popular statements never need explaining, but unpopular ones do.(GARTH)
Positive things happen to positive people.
Possession diminishes the perception of value immediately.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law (or 90% of ownership).
Poverty sucks.
Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice what you preach.
Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition. (HIST.)
Pretty is as pretty does.
Pride goeth before a fall. (BIBLE)
Promises, promises.
Proverbs are short sayings drawn from long experience. (CERVANTES)
Proverbs may not improperly be called the philosophy 
Pucker up buttercup. (ROONEY)
Put da lime in da coconut-den you feel betteh. (NILSSON)
Put your best foot forward.
Put your ducks in a row.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Put your nose to the grindstone.
Put your shoulder to the wheel.
Put up or shut up.
Que sera sera. (HOLLYWD)
Question assumptions.
Question authority. (BUMPER)
Question everything.
Rank has its privileges.
Reach for the stars.
Ready money is Aladdin’s lamp.
Real leaders have no need to lead. They are content to 
Reality bites.
Red skies at night, sailors delight. Red skies in 
Red to black - poisons lack. Red to yellow - kills a 
Religion and politics don’t mix.
Religion is the opiate of the masses. (MARX)
Remember the 
Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar’s, and 
Respect has to be earned.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
Riches, like dung, stinks in a heap,..but when spread abroad, 
Ring out the old, ring in the new.
Rise and shine (and give God glory!)
 wasn’t built in a day.
Row well and live. (41) (HOLLYWD)
Rules were made to be broken.
Sacred cows make the best hamburger.
Safety first.
Say it, don’t spray it.
See no evil, hear no evil, say no evil – no!
Seeing is believing.
Seize the day (or “Carpe Diem”). (HIST)
Sex sells. (N.A.F.T.)
Share and share alike.
Shop ‘til you drop. (BUMPER)
Shoot first and ask questions later.
Short but sweet.
Show me a hero and I’ll show you a tragedy. (HEMINGWAY)
Show-me-the-money!!! (HOLLYWD)
Silence is golden.
Sink the 
So many men, so little time. (N.A.F.T)
Sock it to me! (T.V.)
Some day my prince will come. (HOLLYWD)
Some day my ship will come in.
Some days it doesn’t pay to get outta the bed.
Some days you get the bear, some days the bear gets you.
Sometimes things have to get worse before they get better.
Sometimes you just have to gut it through. (GARTH)
Soylent Green is People! 
Spare the rod and spoil the child. (BIBLE)
Speed kills. (ADVER.)
Speak of the devil (and who shows up?)
Speak the truth and shame the devil.
Stand by your man. (WYNETTE)
Stand up and be counted.
Statistics are for those who believe in nothing, but wish to act on something.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never harm me.
Still waters run deep.
Stop, look and listen.
Storms make trees take deeper root.
Sweets to the sweet.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.
Take no prisoners.
Take the money and run.
Talk is cheap.
Tell not all you know, believe not all you hear, do not 
Thank God it’s Friday (T.G.I.F.).
Thank heaven for little girls.(Chevalier)
That everything may be had for money, 
That’s life.
That’s no lady, that’s my wife.
That’s the blind leading the blind.
That’s the pot calling the kettle black.
The apple never falls far from the tree.
The ballot is stronger than the bullet. (
The basic law of capitalism is you or I; not both you and I.
The best defense is a good offense.
The best things in life are free.
The bigger they are the harder they fall.
The bird who feathers it nest, leaves nothing to chance.
The bloom is off the rose.
The buck stops here. (TRUMAN)
The check is in the mail. (SOC-PSYCH)
The cheese stands alone.
The criminal always returns to the scene of his crime.
The customer is always right.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
The devil dances in an empty pocket.
The devil finds work for idle hands.
The devil take the hindmost.
The devil’s in the details.
The devil’s in the fine print.
The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease.
The early bird gets the worm.
The ends don’t justify the means.
The evil that men do lives after them.
The eyes are the windows to the soul.
The faster I go, the behinder I get. (BUMPER)
The female is the deadlier of the species.
The first casualty of war is truth.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The hand is quicker than the eye.
The hand that rocks the cradle, is the hand that rules the world. (Wallace)
The higher the monkey climbs a tree, the more you see his ugly side.
The innocent and the beautiful have no enemy but time. (YEATS)
The lair of the wicked is ANONYMITY, but the refuge of the 
The leopard can’t change his spots.
The lion is known by his claw. (A contemporary describing Isaac Newton)
The Lord helps he who helps himself.
The Lord moves in mysterious ways.
The meek shall inherit the earth, but not the mineral rights. (GETTY)
The middle of the road is the most dangerous place to walk.
The mob has many heads but no brains. (FULLER)
The more the merrier.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
The more you pay, the more it’s worth.
The most cooperative man in the world is a dead man. (OKMYX)
The most wasted day of all, is the one in which we 
The moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on. (KHAYYAM)
The nail that sticks up…gets the hammer.
The night has a thousand eyes.
The only certainty is that nothing is certain. (PLINY)
The only thing you find in the middle of the road is 
The operation was a success, but the patient died.
The past is the only dead thing that smells sweet. (C.THOMAS)
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The perception of beauty is a moral test. (THOREAU)
The person who knows HOW will always have a job. The person who 
The play’s the thing.
The postman always rings twice.
The proof is in the pudding.
The quickest way to double your money is to fold it 
The right tool for the right job.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The sea is cold, but has the hottest blood of all.
The sequel is never the equal.
The show must go on!
The South will rise again. (HIST.)
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
The third time’s the charm.
The truth cuts both ways.
The truth hurts.
The truth is out there.
The truth will out.
The wages of sin is death. (BIBLE)
The walls have ears.
The way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.
The way to procure insults is to submit to them.
The world is a grindstone-life is your nose. (ALLEN)
The world loves a spice of wickedness.
The worm is the spice, the spice is the worm.(HERBERT)
Theirs not to make reply, theirs not to reason why, 
There ain’t no justice.
There are lies, damn lies, and then there’s STATISTICS.
There are old pilots and bold pilots, but no old, bold pilots.
There are ways,…and then there are WAYS.
There comes a time in every project when you have 
There comes a time when you can’t hit your brother anymore, 
There is no armor against fate.
There is no God, but God.
There is no ‘royal road’ to Geometry. (EUCLID)
There is no such thing as justice, in or out of court.(DARROW)
There is nothing new under the sun. (BIBLE)
There is nothing so small it can’t be blown out of proportion.
There is nothing to fear, but fear itself. (ROOSEVELT)
There’s a fine line between genius and madness.
There’s a little larceny in everybody.
There’s a sucker born every minute. 
There’s always a light at the end of the tunnel.
There’s more then one way to skin a cat.
There’s never a cop around when you need one.
There’s no atheists in the foxholes. (CUMMINGS)
There’s no business like show business.
There’s no fool like an old fool.
There’s no place like home.
There’s no room for sentiment in business.
There’s no way to tell where the DT’s leave off 
There’s none so blind as those who will not see.
There’s safety in numbers.
There’s small choice in rotten apples.(SHAKESPEARE)
There’s something rotten in Denmark.
There’s two theories to arguin’ with a woman; Neither one works.
They also serve who only stand and wait.
Think God. (BUMPER)
This far and no farther.
Those who CAN, have a moral obligation to do 
Those who ignore the lessons of history are doomed 
Three on a match is bad luck.
Three things the public clamors for: NOVELTY, NOVELTY, NOVELTY.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Time flies when you’re having fun.
Time for the old ‘tried and true’.
Time heals all wounds.
Time is money.
Time is the great healer.
Time marches on.
Time waits for no one.
Timing is everything.
To do just the opposite is also a form of imitation.(JOHNSON)
To err is human, but it feels divine. (MAE WEST)
To err is human, to forgive divine.
To the victor go the spoils.
To thine own self be true.
To whom much is given, much is required.
Today is the first day of the rest of your life. (BUMPER)
Tomorrow IS another day! (HOLLYWD)
Tomorrow never comes.
Too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too much is never enough.
Top O’ the world Ma! (HOLLYWD)
Tough times don’t last. Tough people do.
Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old 
Trouble rides a fast horse.
Troubles come in threes.
Trust everybody, but cut the cards.
Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel.
Trust is a two-way street.
Trust only those who stand to lose as much as you 
Trust works both ways.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Turn out the lights, the party’s over. (NFL - MEREDITH) (T.V.)
Turn the other cheek. (BIBLE)
Turnabout is fair play.
Two can live as cheaply as one.
Two heads are better than one.
Two’s company, three’s a crowd. 
Two wrongs don’t make a right. 
Uneasy lies the head that bears the crown.
United we stand, divided we fall.
Up the establishment. (POLIT.)
Upward and onward.
Use it or lose it.
Use the force Luke! (HOLLYWD)
‘V’ for victory. (POLIT. SLOGAN)
Variety is the soul of pleasure.
Variety is the spice of life.
Virtue and vice divide the stars, but vice has the 
Virtue is its own reward.
Visualize  world  peace (or ‘ whirled peas’). (BUMPER)
Vote for Pat Paulson  or get off the pot! (T.V. – HIST)
Walk softly but carry a big stick. (ROOSEVELT?)
War is hell.
War makes strange bedfellows.
Warped minds think alike.
Waste not - want not.
Watch the skies.
Water seeks it’s own level.
Water takes the easiest path.
We all learn from our mistakes.
We have to believe in free will. We have no choice.
We must all hang together or we will all hang seperately. (FRANKLIN)
We sleep, they live.
What baby wants, baby gets. (BOGART)
What doesn’t kill me only makes me stronger.
What goes around, comes around.
What goes up must come down.
What man calls ‘civilization’, always results in deserts. (MARQUIS)
What,…me worry? (NEUMAN)
What one man can do, another man can do.
What we obtain too cheaply, we esteem too lightly.
What you don’t know, can’t hurt you. 
Whatever floats your boat.
Whatever can go wrong, will go wrong (a.k.a. Murphy’s law).
Whatever’s fair.
What’s done is done.
What’s good for General Motors is good for the 
When God shuts a door, he opens a window.
What’s good for the goose is good for the gander.
When a body is immersed in water, the telephone rings.
When bad men combine, the good must associate. (BURKE)
When elephants make war, it is the mice that suffer.
When in doubt, run ‘em out. (???)
When in doubt, run like hell. (BUMPER)
When in Rome, do as the Romans. (HIST)
When in trouble,…travel. (‘Presidential’ advice)
When it grows too long, the tail wags the dog.
When it rains, it pours.
When life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
When nature calls, you answer.
When the chips are down, you know the buffalo is empty. (???)
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping. (BUMPER)
When you give a lesson in mean-ness to a critter or a person, 
When you play  with fire, you get burned.
When you’re throwin’ your weight around, be ready to 
When you’ve eliminated all other possibilities, whatever 
Where there is no vision, the people perish. (BIBLE)
Where there’s a will, there’s a lawsuit.
Where there’s a will, there’s a way.
Where there’s life, there’s hope.
Where there’s smoke, there’s fire.
Where’s the beef? (T.V. – ADVER.)
While the cat’s away, the mice will play.
White man speak with forked tongue. 
Who controls the past, controls the future. (ORWELL)
Who dares, wins.
Whoever has the gold, makes the rules.
Whom the Gods would destroy, they first make mad. (EURIPEDES)
Why walk when you can ride?
Winners never quit, and quitters never win.
Winning isn’t everything.
Winning isn’t everything, it’s the ONLY thing. (BUMPER)
Women and children first.
Women; Can’t live with ‘em, can’t live without ‘em.
Woodsman, spare that tree.
Worldly hearts are penny-wise, but pound-foolish.
Worry is the interest paid by those who borrow trouble.
Write with the learned, pronounce with the vulgar. (FRANKLIN)
‘ X ‘  marks the spot.
Ya gotta put down the ducky ( if you wanna play the saxophone). (T.V.)
Yeah, but will it play in Peoria?
You always hurt the one you love.
You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
You can dress him up, but you can’t take him out.
You can fool SOME of the people all of the time, and 
You can have a dog for a friend, or whiskey for a friend…but if 
You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make him drink.
You can never go home again.
You can never plan the future by the past. (BURKE)
You can pick your friends, but you can’t pick your relatives.
You can take ‘glory’ with you,…when it’s your time to go. (HOLLYWD)
You can take the boy out of the country, but you can’t 
You can’t cheat an honest man.
You can’t fight City Hall.
You can’t fool Mother Nature.
You can’t have the rainbow without the rain.
You can’t have your cake and eat it too.
You can’t judge a book by its cover.
You can’t make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear.
You can’t take it with you when you go.
You can’t teach an old dog new tricks.
You can’t win ‘em all.
You don’t know what you’ve got ‘til it’s gone. 
You go to heaven for the weather, and hell for the company.
You gotta  look out for number one.
You just never can tell about some things.
You learn something new everyday.
You never know who’s right, but you always know who’s in charge..
You only go around once in life. (T.V./ADVER.)
You only live once. (Or ‘twice’ if you’re James Bond)
You seen one, you’ve seen ‘em all.
You scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours.
You snooze, you lose.
You watch my back, and I’ll watch yours.
You’d be surprised at what you can live through.
You’re as young as you feel.
You’re either part of the solution, or part of the problem.
You’re never fully dressed without a smile. (IODENT)
You’re never too old to learn.
Youth condemns, maturity condones. (LOWELL)
Youth is a blunder,…manhood a struggle,
Youth looks forward, age looks back.
Youth will be served.
You’ve got to go along to get along.
You’ve got to know when to hold ‘em, know when to fold ‘em, 
You’ve got to walk before you can run.
You’ve got to watch your step… when you know the 
You’ve got to play the hand you’re dealt.A bad penny always turns up
A barking dog never bites
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush
A cat may look at a king
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link
A change is as good as a rest
A dog is a man's best friend
A drowning man will clutch at a straw
A fish always rots from the head down
A fool and his money are soon parted
A friend in need is a friend indeed
A golden key can open any door
A good beginning makes a good ending
A good man is hard to find
A house divided against itself cannot stand
A person is known by the company he keeps
A house is not a home
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step
A leopard cannot change its spots
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing
A little learning is a dangerous thing
A little of what you fancy does you good
A man is known by his friends
A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for his client
A miss is as good as a mile
A new broom sweeps clean
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse
A penny saved is a penny earned
A picture paints a thousand words
A place for everything and everything in its place
A poor workman always blames his tools 
A person is known by the company he keeps
A problem shared is a problem halved
A prophet is not recognized in his own land
A rising tide lifts all boats
A rolling stone gathers no moss
A soft answer turneth away wrath
A stitch in time saves nine
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly
A thing of beauty is a joy forever
A trouble shared is a trouble halved
A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men
A watched pot never boils
A woman is only a woman, but a good cigar is a smoke
A woman's place is in the home
A woman's work is never done
A word to the wise is enough
Absence makes the heart grow fonder
Absolute power corrupts absolutely
Accidents will happen (in the best-regulated families).
Actions speak louder than words
Adversity makes strange bedfellows
After a storm comes a calm 
All good things come to he who waits
All good things must come to an end
All is grist that comes to the mill
All publicity is good publicity
All roads lead to Rome
All that glisters is not gold
All that glitters is not gold 
All the world loves a lover
All things come to those who wait
All things must pass
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy
All you need is love
All's fair in love and war
All's for the best in the best of all possible worlds
All's well that ends well
A miss is as good as a mile
An apple a day keeps the doctor away
An army marches on its stomach
An Englishman's home is his castle
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure
Another day, another dollar 
Any port in a storm
Appearances can be deceptive
April is the cruellest month
April showers bring forth May flowers
As thick as thieves
As you make your bed, so you must lie upon it
As you sow so shall you reap
 Ashes to ashes dust to dust
Ask a silly question and you'll get a silly answer
Ask no questions and hear no lies 
Attack is the best form of defence
Bad money drives out good 
Bad news travels fast 
Barking dogs seldom bite
Be careful what you wish for
Beat swords into ploughshares
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder
Beauty is only skin deep
Beggars should not be choosers
Behind every great man there's a great woman
Better late than never
Better safe than sorry
Better the Devil you know than the Devil you don't
Better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all
Better to light a candle than to curse the darkness
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool that to speak and remove all doubt
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts
Beware the Ides of March
Big fish eat little fish
Birds of a feather flock together
Blessed are the peacemakers
Blood is thicker than water
Blue are the hills that are far away
Boys will be boys
Brevity is the soul of wit
Business before pleasure
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion
Carpe diem (Pluck the day; Seize the day) 
Charity begins at home
Charity covers a multitude of sins
Cheaters never win and winners never cheat
Cheats never prosper
Children and fools tell the truth
Children should be seen and not heard
Christmas comes but once a year
Cleanliness is next to godliness
Clothes maketh the man
Cold hands, warm heart
Comparisons are odious
Count your blessings
Cowards may die many times before their death
Crime doesn't pay
Cut your coat to suit your cloth
Dead men tell no tales
Devil take the hindmost
Discretion is the better part of valour
Distance lends enchantment to the view
Do as I say, not as I do
Do as you would be done by
Do unto others as you would have them do to you
Don't bite the hand that feeds you
Don't burn your bridges behind you
Don't cast your pearls before swine
Don't change horses in midstream
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched
Don't cross the bridge till you come to it
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face
Don't get mad, get even
Don't keep a dog and bark yourself
Don't leave your manners on the doorstep
Don't let the bastards grind you down
Don't let the cat out of the bag
Don't let the grass grow under your feet
Don't meet troubles half-way
Don't mix business with pleasure
Don't put all your eggs in one basket
Don't put the cart before the horse
Don't put new wine into old bottles
Don't rock the boat
Don't shoot the messenger
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar
Don't sweat the small stuff
Don't throw pearls to swine
Don't teach your Grandma to suck eggs
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater
Don't trust anyone over thirty
Don't try to run before you can walk
Don't try to walk before you can crawl
Don't upset the apple-cart
Don't wash your dirty linen in public
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise
East is east, and west is west
East, west, home's best
Easy come, easy go
Eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die
Empty vessels make the most noise
Enough is as good as a feast
Enough is enough
Even a worm will turn
Every cloud has a silver lining
Every dog has its day
Every little helps
Every man for himself, and the Devil take the hindmost
Every man has his price
Every picture tells a story
Every stick has two ends
Everyone wants to go to heaven but nobody wants to die
Everything comes to him who waits
Failing to plan is planning to fail
Faint heart never won fair lady
Fair exchange is no robbery
Faith will move mountains
Familiarity breeds contempt
Feed a cold and starve a fever
Fight fire with fire
Fight the good fight
Finders keepers, losers weepers
Fine words butter no parsnips
First come, first served
First impressions are the most lasting
First things first
Fish always stink from the head down
Fish and guests smell after three days
Flattery will get you nowhere
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread
For everything there is a season
For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; and for want of a horse the man was lost
Forewarned is forearmed
Forgive and forget
Fortune favours the brave
From the sublime to the ridiculous is only one step
Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains
Genius is one percent inspiration, ninety-nine percent perspiration
Give a man a fish and you will feed him for a day... 
Give a dog a bad name and hang him
Give a man  enough rope and he will hang himself
Give credit where credit is due
Give the Devil his due
Go the extra mile
God helps those who help themselves
Good fences make good neighbours
Good talk saves the food
Good things come in small packages
Good things come to those who wait
Great minds think alike
Half a loaf is better than no bread
Handsome is as handsome does
Hard cases make bad law
Hard work never did anyone any harm
Haste makes waste
He that goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing
He who can does, he who cannot, teaches
He who fights and runs away, may live to fight another day
He who hesitates is lost
He who laughs last laughs longest
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword
He who pays the piper calls the tune
He who sups with the Devil should have a long spoon
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned
Hindsight is always twenty-twenty
History repeats itself
Home is where the heart is
Honesty is the best policy
Hope springs eternal
Horses for courses
If anything can go wrong, it will 
If a job is worth doing it is worth doing well
If at first you don't succeed try, try and try again
If God had meant us to fly he'd have given us wings
If ifs and ands were pots and pans there'd be no work for tinkers
If it ain't broke, don't fix it
If life deals you lemons, make lemonade
If the cap fits, wear it
If the mountain won't come to Mohammed, then Mohammed must go to the mountain
If the shoe fits, wear it
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride
If you build it they will come
If you can't be good, be careful
If you can't beat em, join em
If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen
If you lie down with dogs, you will get up with fleas
If you pay peanuts, you get monkeys
If you want a thing done well, do it yourself
Ignorance is bliss
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery
In for a penny, in for a pound
In the kingdom of the blind the one eyed man is king
In the midst of life we are in death
Into every life a little rain must fall
It ain't over till the fat lady sings 
It goes without saying
It is best to be on the safe side
It is better to give than to receive
It is easy to be wise after the event
It never rains but it pours
It takes a thief to catch a thief
It takes all sorts to make a world
It takes one to know one
It takes two to tango
It's all grist to the mill
It's an ill wind that blows no one any good
It's better to give than to receive
It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all
It's better to light a candle than curse the darkness
It's better to travel hopefully than to arrive
It's never too late 
It's no use crying over spilt milk
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted
It's the early bird that catches the worm
It's the empty can that makes the most noise
It's the singer not the song
It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease
Jack of all trades, master of none
Judge not, that ye be not judged
Keep your chin up
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer
Keep your powder dry
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone
Laughter is the best medicine
Least said, soonest mended
Less is more
Let bygones be bygones
Let not the sun go down on your wrath
Let sleeping dogs lie 
Let the buyer beware
Let the dead bury the dead
Let the punishment fit the crime
Let well alone
Life begins at forty
Life is just a bowl of cherries
Life is what you make it
Life's not all beer and skittles
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place
Like father, like son
Little pitchers have big ears
Little strokes fell great oaks
Little things please little minds
Live and learn
Live for today for tomorrow never comes
Look before you leap
Love of money is the root of all evil
Love is blind
Love makes the world go round
Love thy neighbour as thyself
Love will find a way
Make hay while the sun shines
Make love not war
Man does not live by bread alone
Manners maketh man
Many a little makes a mickle
Many a mickle makes a muckle
Many a true word is spoken in jest
Many are called but few are chosen
Many hands make light work
March comes in like a lion, and goes out like a lamb
March winds and April showers bring forth May flowers
Marriages are made in heaven
Marry in haste, repent at leisure
Might is right
Mighty oaks from little acorns grow
Misery loves company
Moderation in all things
Monday's child is fair of face, 
     Tuesday's child is full of grace,
     Wednesday's child is full of woe,
     Thursday's child has far to go,
     Friday's child is loving and giving,
     Saturday's child works hard for its living,
     And a child that's born on the Sabbath day
     Is fair and wise and good and gay.
Money doesn't grow on trees
Money is the root of all evil
Money isn't everything
Money makes the world go round
Money talks
More haste, less speed
Music has charms to soothe the savage breast
Nature abhors a vacuum
Necessity is the mother of invention
Needs must when the devil drives
Ne'er cast a clout till May be out
Never give a sucker an even break
Never go to bed on an argument
Never judge a book by its cover
Never let the sun go down on your anger
Never look a gift horse in the mouth
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today
Never speak ill of the dead
Never tell tales out of school
Nine tailors make a man
No man can serve two masters
No man is an island
No names, no pack-drill
No news is good news
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent
No pain, no gain
No rest for the wicked
Nothing new under the sun
Nothing is certain but death and taxes
Nothing succeeds like success
Nothing ventured, nothing gained
Oil and water don't mix
Old soldiers never die, they just fade away
Once a thief, always a thief
Once bitten, twice shy
One good turn deserves another
One half of the world does not know how the other half lives
One hand washes the other
One man's meat is another man's poison
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb
One law for the rich and another for the poor
One swallow does not make a summer
One volunteer is worth ten pressed men
One year's seeding makes seven years weeding
Only fools and horses work
Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door
Opposites attract
Out of sight, out of mind
Parsley seed goes nine times to the Devil
Patience is a virtue
Pearls of wisdom
Penny wise and pound foolish
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones
Physician, heal thyself
Possession is nine points of the law
Power corrupts; absolute power corrupts absolutely
Practice makes perfect
Practice what you preach
Prevention is better than cure
Pride goes before a fall
Procrastination is the thief of time
Put your best foot forward
Rain before seven, fine before eleven 
Red sky at night shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning
Revenge is a dish best served cold
Revenge is sweet
Rob Peter to pay Paul
Rome wasn't built in a day
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, bad luck you'll have all day
See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil
Seeing is believing
Seek and ye shall find
Set a thief to catch a thief
Share and share alike
Shrouds have no pockets
Silence is golden
Slow but sure
Softly, softly, catchee monkey
Spare the rod and spoil the child
Speak as you find
Speak softly and carry a big stick
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me
Still waters run deep
Strike while the iron is hot
Stupid is as stupid does
Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves
Talk is cheap
Talk of the Devil, and he is bound to appear
Tell the truth and shame the Devil
That which does not kill us makes us stronger
The age of miracles is past 
The apple never falls far from the tree
The best defence is a good offence
The best is the enemy of the good
The best-laid schemes of mice and men gang aft agley
The best things in life are free
The bigger, the better
The bigger they are, the harder they fall
The bottom line is the bottom line 
The boy is father to the man
The bread always falls buttered side down 
The child is the father of the man
The cobbler always wears the worst shoes
The course of true love never did run smooth
The customer is always right
The darkest hour is just before the dawn
The Devil finds work for idle hands to do
The Devil is in the details
The Devil looks after his own
The early bird catches the worm
The end justifies the means
The exception which proves the rule
The female of the species is more deadly than the male
The fruit does not fall far from the tree
The good die young
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world
The husband is always the last to know
The labourer is worthy of his hire
The law is an ass
The leopard does not change his spots
The longest journey starts with a single step
The more the merrier
The more things change, the more they stay the same
The only good Indian is a dead Indian
The opera ain't over till the fat lady sings
The pen is mightier than sword
The price of liberty is eternal vigilance
The proof of the pudding is in the eating 
The road to hell is paved with good intentions
The shoemaker's son always goes barefoot
The squeaking wheel gets the grease
The truth will out
The wages of sin is death
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach
The whole is greater than the sum of the parts
There are more ways of killing a cat than choking it with cream
There are none so blind as those, that will not see
There are two sides to every question
There but for the grace of God, go I
There's a time and a place for everything
There's an exception to every rule
There's always more fish in the sea
There's honour among thieves
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle
There's many a slip 'twixt cup and lip
There's more than one way to skin a cat
There's no accounting for tastes
There's no fool like an old fool
There's no place like home
There's no smoke without fire
There's no such thing as a free lunch
There's no such thing as bad publicity
There's no time like the present
There's none so blind as those who will not see
There's none so deaf as those who will not hear
There's nowt so queer as folk
There's one born every minute
There's safety in numbers
They that sow the wind, shall reap the whirlwind
Third time lucky
Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it
Those who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas
Thou shalt not kill
Time and tide wait for no man
Time flies
Time is a great healer
Time is money
Time will tell
'tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all
To err is human; to forgive divine
To every thing there is a season 
To the victor go the spoils
To travel hopefully is a better thing than to arrive
Tomorrow is another day
Tomorrow never comes
Too many cooks spoil the broth
Truth is stranger than fiction
Truth will out
Two blacks don't make a white
Two heads are better than one
Two is company, but three's a crowd 
Two wrongs don't make a right
Variety is the spice of life
Virtue is its own reward
Walls have ears
Walnuts and pears you plant for your heirs
Waste not want not
What can't be cured must be endured
What goes up must come down
What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander
When in Rome, do as the Romans do
When the cat's away the mice will play
When the going gets tough, the tough get going
When the oak is before the ash, then you will only get a splash; when the ash is before the oak, then you may expect a soak
What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over
Where there's a will there's a way
Where there's muck there's brass
While there's life there's hope
Whom the Gods love die young
Why keep a dog and bark yourself?
Women and children first 
Wonders will never cease
Work expands so as to fill the time available
Worrying never did anyone any good
You are never too old to learn
You are what you eat
You can choose your friends but you can't choose your family
You can have too much of a good thing
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink
You can't have your cake and eat it
You can't get blood out of a stone
You can't get blood out of a turnip
You can't make a silk purse from a sow's ear
You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs
You can't make bricks without straw
You can't run with the hare and hunt with the hounds
You can't take it with you [when you die]
You can't teach an old dog new tricks
You can't judge a book by  its cover
You can't win them all
You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar
You pays your money and you takes your choice
You reap what you sow
You win some, you lose some
Youth is wasted on the youngA friend's frown is better than a fool's smile.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A friend is easier lost than found.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
A true friend is someone who reaches for your hand, but touches your heart.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Flattery is all right so long as you don't inhale.
Give credit where credit is due.
Grief divided is made lighter.
Memory is the treasure of the mind.
Nothing dries sooner than a tear.
Old friends and old wine are best.
The best of friends must part.
The best things are not bought and sold.
There is no better looking-glass than an old friend.
To err is human (To forgive divine).
Two cannot fall out if one does not choose.
A loveless life is a living death.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
All's fair in love and war.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Before you meet the handsome prince you have to kiss a lot of toads.
Better to have loved and lost, than to have never loved at all.
Cold hands, warm heart.
Distance makes the heart grow fonder.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
First impressions are the most lasting.
Hatred is as blind as love.
Love and a cough cannot be hid.
Love does much but money does all.
Love levels all inequalities.
Love makes a good eye squint.
Love sees no faults.
Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
Love to live and live to love.
Love with life is heaven; and life unloving, hell.
Man is the head but woman turns it.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
The course of love never did run smooth.
The Lord loveth a cheerful liar.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
To eat one's heart out.
True beauty lies within.
You can't live on bread alone.
A good friend is one's nearest relation.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man of straw needs a woman of gold.
Apples don't fall far from the tree.
A wink is as good as a nod, to a blind man.
An injury is forgiven better than an injury revenged.
Anger and hate hinder good counsel.
Appearances are deceptive.
At a round table there's no dispute about the place.
Attack is the best form of defence
Be slow in choosing, but slower in changing.
Behind every great man stands a strong woman.
Blood is thicker than water.
Cheerfulness smooths the road of life.
Confess and be hanged.
Conscience makes cowards of us all.
Don't blow your own trumpet.
Do as you would be done by.
Do unto others as you would have them do to you.
Grow angry slowly; there's plenty of time.
He bears misery best that hides it most.
He that hurts another, hurts himself.
He who wronged you will hate you.
Heavy givers are light complainers.
Honour is a gift you give yourself.
I am rubber and you are glue. Your words bounce off me and stick to you.
If you lose your temper, don't look for it.
It's not over till it's over.
Joy shared is double joy; grief shared is (only) half grief.
Laugh and the world laughs with you. Cry and you cry alone.
Never let the sun set on angry heart.
Never let the sun go down on your anger.
Never let the sun set on thy wrath.
Never quarrel with one's bread and butter.
No man or woman is worth your tears, and the one who is, won't make you cry.
Open confession is good for the soul.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Patience is a virtue.
Persuasion is better than force.
Spare the rod and spoil the child.
Temper is so good a thing that we should never lose it.
The greater joy is in giving - not receiving.
There is nothing as sharp as a woman's tongue.
To the world you may be one person, but to one person, you may be the world.
Wondrous is the strength of cheerfulness.
You made your bed, now you must lie in it.
A bully is always a coward.
A handsome shoe often pinches the foot.
A good thing is all the sweeter when won with pain.
A man too careful of danger lives in continual torment.
A miss is as good as a mile.
Adversity flatters no man
Adversity and loss make a man wise
All promises are either broken or kept.
All things come to those that wait.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
An open door may tempt a saint.
As one door closes, another always opens.
As you go through life, make this your goal, watch the doughnut and not the hole.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Cut your coat according to the cloth.
Discretion is the better part of valour.
Do right and fear no man.
Easy come, easy go.
Experience is the hardest teacher. She gives the test first and the lesson afterwards.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Fortune favours the brave.
Hall binks are oft sliddery.     An explanation
He who laughs last, laughs longest.
Home is where the heart is.
Hope for the best and prepare for the worst.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
It never rains but it pours.
Leave tomorrow till tomorrow.
Life begins at forty.
Life's trials may be hard to bear, but patience can outlive them.
Live and learn.
Manners maketh the man.
No man is worse for knowing the worst of himself.
Only the good die young.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
The best things in life are free.
The family that prays together, stays together.
The longer you live the more you see.
The meek shall inherit the earth.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
To wait and be patient soothes many a pang.
To promise yourself a future means to rob yourself of the present.
Up and down like a fiddler's elbow.
We cannot erase the sad records from our past.
What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over.
While there's life there's hope.
A watched pot never boils.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An onion a day keeps everyone away.
An ounce of protection is worth a pound of cure.
Another pot ! Try the teapot.
As fit as a fiddle.
As hard as nails.
As sick as a dog.
As you go through life, make this your goal, watch the doughnut and not the hole.
Be not a baker if your head is made of butter.
Beauty is but skin deep.
Better late thrive than never do well.
Better to be poor and healthy rather than rich and sick.
Better to wear out than rust out.
Bread never falls but on its buttered side.
Cleanliness is next to Godliness.
Content is health to the sick and riches to the poor.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Drink like a fish, water only.
Early to bed, early to rise, makes you healthy, wealthy & wise.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Fair words butter no cabbage.
Give a man a fish and he will eat for the day.  Give him a fishing rod, and he will eat forever.
Good wine ruins the purse, and bad wine ruins the stomach.
Greediness burst the bag.
Grumbling makes the loaf no larger.
Half a loaf is better than none.
He who rises late must trot all day.
He who drinks a little too much drinks much too much.
His eyes are bigger than his belly.
Hunger is the best sauce.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
Old friends and old wine are best.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
Ready money is ready medicine.
Sound as a bell.
The nearer the bone the sweeter the meat.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
There's many a slip, twixt cup and the lip.
To add insult to injury.
To look as if butter will not melt in his mouth.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
What can't be cured must be endured.
What doesnât kill us makes us stronger.
What you eat today walks and talks tomorrow.
Wondrous is the strength of cheerfulness.
You are what you eat.
You can't have your cake and eat it too. - When you analyse it you see that short term you can have you cake and then eat it. But, long term, once you have eaten your cake you don't have your cake as it has been eaten. So "You can't have your cake and eat it too", is correct.
You can eat an elephant if you do it one mouthful at a time.
You can't unscramble a scrambled egg.
A fool uttereth all his mind.
A bad excuse is better then none.
A closed mouth gathers no foot.
Actions speak louder than words.
Angry words fan the fire like wind.
Call a spade a spade.
Do as I say not as I do.
Don't advertise: Tell it to a gossip.
Don't go off half-cocked.
Few words and many deeds.
For donkeys' ages.
Gossips are frogs, they drink and talk.
He who sings drives away sorrow.
If you don't say it you will not have to unsay it.
It takes two to have an argument.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Listen to the pot calling the kettle black.
Many a true word spoken in jest.
Negotiation is preferable to confrontation.
No news is good news.
Nothing is ill said if it is not ill taken.
One picture is worth a thousand words.
Say what you mean and mean what you say.
Self praise is no recommendation.
Silence is an excellent remedy against slander.
Silence is golden.
Silence is less injurious than a bad reply.
Since before cocky was an egg.
Speak clearly, if you speak at all.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
Stop beating around the bush.
Take your wife's first advice.
Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom.
A change is as good as a rest.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A throne is only a bench covered in purple velvet.
A wise man shall hold his tongue till he sees his opportunity.
Accidents will happen.
All's well that ends well.
Attack is the best means of defence.
Charity begins at home.
Different strokes for different folks.
Do not in an instant what an age cannot recompense.
Don't knock on death's door, ring the doorbell and run.
Don't try to teach your grand-mother to suck eggs.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
Empty barrels make the most noise.
Four eyes are better than two.
Good judgement comes from experience. Experience comes from bad judgement.
He who fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
Innocent as a new born babe.
It's an ill wind that blows no-one some good.
It is better to stay silent and be thought a fool, than to open one's mouth and remove all doubt.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
No one can be caught in places he does not visit.
No point in making a mountain out of a molehill.
No wise man ever wishes to be younger.
Not in a month of Sundays.
One man's junk is another man's treasure.
Only desire what you deserve.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
Still waters run deep.
The darkest hour is before the dawn.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The wise shall understand.
Those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it.
Tomorrow is a new day.
Two heads are better than one.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
When water is above your head a thousand fathoms is as one.
Where observation is concerned, chance favours only the prepared mind.
Where there's smoke there's fire.
Wisdom is better than strength.
Wisdom is neither inheritance nor a legacy.
Wisdom is the wealth of the wise.
Wise it is to comprehend the whole.
You can't put an old head on young shoulders.
You never know what you can do till you try.
A bad workman blames his tools
A good reputation is a fair estate.
A ship in the harbour is safe; but that is not what a ship is for.
Adversity is no match for tenacity.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
An honest day's pay for an honest day's work.
An idle man is the devil's playfellow.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Don't try kicking against the wind.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
He who does nothing, does not damage anything.
If a job is worth doing it is worth doing well.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If it is not broken, don't fix it.
If you can't help, don't hinder.
If you see something you like, take it and make it better.
It's all in a days work.
It is easy to criticise others work, when you are not working.
Laziness travels so slowly that poverty soon overtakes it.
Least talk most work.
Many hands make light work.
More haste less speed.
Needs must when the devil drives.
Never put off 'til tomorrow what you can do today.
No life can be dreary when work is a delight.
Not to break is better than to mend.
The devil finds work for idle hands.
The harder you work, the luckier you are.
The hardest work is to do nothing.
The only time you should be late is for your own funeral.
Think thrice, measure twice, cut once.
Those who never do anything never make mistakes.
Work as if everything depends on me, but pray as if everything depends on God.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.  
See note 1
A bird makes his nest little by little.
A cat has nine lives.
All cats are grey in the dark.
An elephant never forgets.
An old fox need learn no craft.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Curiosity killed the cat; Satisfaction brought it back.
Curses, like chickens come home to roost.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch. 
Every dog has its day.
His bark is louder than his bite.
If you lie down with dogs, you'll get up with fleas.
It's an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
It's an old dog for a hard road.
It's no use closing the stable door, after the horse has bolted.
Itâs not the size of the dog in a fight that matters but the size of the fight in the dog.
Kill two birds with the one stone.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Like a fish out of water.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
No sense closing the barn door after the horse has bolted.
Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox.
One can win a rat race and still be a rat.
Putting the cart before the horse.
Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
The early bird catches the worm.
The leopard does not change his spots.
The sleepy fox catches no chickens.
There's no use in flogging a dead horse.
To scare a bird is not the way to catch it.
What do you expect from a pig, but a grunt?
When a fox hears a rabbit screaming it comes running, but not to help.
While the cats away the mice play.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
You can't buy a racehorse for the price of a donkey.
You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
After the storm comes the calm.
All aren't hunters that blow the horn.
As green as grass.
As is the gardener so is the garden.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
Best to bend it while it's a twig.
By hook or by crook.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Distance lends enhancement to the view.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
Empty bags cannot stand upright.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Fresh as a daisy.
It is better to be green and growing than ripe and rotten.
It is hard to soar like an eagle when surrounded by turkeys.
It is too late closing the gate after the horse has bolted.
Leave no stone unturned.
Like looking for a needle in a haystack. 
Make hay while the sun shines.
Milk the cow but don't pull off the udder.
Never cackle unless you lay.
Never test the depth of the water with both feet.
Oaks may fall when reeds take the storm.
One day a rooster, the next day a feather duster.
Shake the hand before you plough the field.
Strike while the iron's hot.
The best ground bears weeds as well as flowers.
The darkest night brings the brightest dawn.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The more you stir, the more it stinks.
The sun shines on both sides of the hedge.
The worst wheel always creaks most.
There's always one rotten apple in every box. 
Too many irons in the fire.
Useless as a screen door on a dunny.         (A dunny is an old style Australian outside toilet)
You can't get blood out of a stone.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
Bad news travels fast.
Be aware that the road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Better to go back than go wrong.
Don't cross your bridges until you come to them.
Doubt is the deadliest enemy of any dream.
Everybody must row with the oars he has.
Every path has its puddle.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
He who stops at every stone never gets to his journey's end. 
He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast.
If you don't know where you're going, then the journey is never ending.
It is the first step that is difficult.
On a long journey even a straw is heavy.
Show a clean pair of heels.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Some roads aren't meant to be travelled alone.
Step by step one goes far.
The beaten path is safest.
The hardest part is leaving home.
The longest journey begins with the first step.
The longest way round is the sweetest way home.
You have to crawl before you walk.
A little body doth often harbour a great soul.
A point is the beginning of magnitude.
A spark can start a great fire.
A short cut is often a wrong cut.
Big fish eat little fish.
Everything has an end.
Failure is not an option.
Fall seven times. Stand up eight.
First in best dressed.
From trivial things, great contests often arise.
Give them an inch and they'll take a mile.
Grow angry slowly, there's plenty of time.
Growing old is inevitable; growing up is optional.
He who hesitates is lost.
It's either all or nothing.
It is easier to destroy than to build.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Lost time is never found again.
Many drops make a shower.
Mighty oaks from tiny acorns grow.
Necessity is a hard nurse, but she raises strong children.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
Seize the day
Small faults indulged let in greater.
Some of the best gifts come in small packages.
A bad penny always comes back.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
A little each day is much in a year.
A man's intentions seldom add to his income.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A poor man is better than a liar.
A single penny fairly got is worth a thousand that are not.
All that glitters is not gold.
Always you are to be rich next year.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Better to have than to wish.
Diamonds are forever.
Discretion is the better part of valour.
Every man has his price.
Every man is the architect of his destiny.
Experience is the father of wisdom.
Fair exchange is no robbery.
He has enough who is content.
He that pays last never pays twice.
He is rich that is satisfied.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
It is better to be born lucky than rich.
Little and often fill the purse.
Little thieves are hanged, but great ones escape.
Money burns a hole in your pocket.
Money doesn't grow on trees.
Money is not the key to happiness, but if you have enough money you can have a key made.
Never spend your money before you have it.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
The best cast at dice is not to play.
The love of money is the root of all evil.
The safest way to double your money is to fold it in half and put it back in your pocket.
There is no honour among thieves.
Waste not, want not.
A good conscience is a soft pillow.
A good thing is soon snatched up.
A little bit of something is better than a lot of nothing.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Better safe than sorry.
Better late than never.
Business before pleasure.
Credit won by lying is quick in dying.
Damage suffered makes you knowing, but seldom rich.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
Divide and conquer.
Don't rely on the label on the bag.
Don't throw the baby out with the bath-water.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Experience is the best teacher.
First come, first served.
Fore-warned is fore-armed.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Hasty judgements are generally faulty.
Honesty is the best policy.
If anything can go wrong, it will.
It's a poor job that can't carry one boss.
Keep It Simple (The KISS principal).
Let the buyer beware.
Look before you leap.
Nobody can serve two masters.
One false move may lose the game.
One man's loss, is another man's gain.
Peace begins just where ambition ends.
Plan for the worst; hope for the best.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
Rules are made to be broken.
Successful people are persistent.
The customer is always right.
The gods help them that help themselves.
The golden age never was the present one.
To each his own.
We do not always gain by changing.
Where there's a will there's a way.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A fool in a gown is none the wiser.
A wise man doesn't need advice, and a fool won't take it.
Advice when most needed is least heeded.
Always in a hurry, always behind.
Cheap is dear in the long run.
Confess and be hanged.
Cut off one's nose to spite one's face.
Empty vessels make the most noise.
Facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
He who won't be advised, can't be helped.
If the cap fits, wear it.
In one ear and out the other.
It can't happen here is number one on the list of famous last words.
It is better to stay silent and be thought a fool,             than to open one's mouth and remove all doubt.
One of these days is none of these days.
People who living in glass houses should not throw stones.
Pride cometh before a fall.
Pride feels no pain.
See nothing, say nothing, know nothing.
The bigger they are the harder they fall.
The fool wanders, the wise man travels.
The hood does not make the monk.
The wise man is deceived once but the fool twice.
There is no fool like an old fool.
Use not today what tomorrow will need.
What's the good of home, if you are never in it?
You cannot lose what you never had.
Red sky at night, sailors delight. Red sky in the morning, sailors take warning.
Red sky at night, shepherds delight. Red sky in the morning, shepherds warning.
When rain comes before the wind, halyards, sheets and braces mind, but when wind comes before rain, soon you may make sail again.
When dew is on the grass, no rain will come to pass.